MUTF honours Prof. Iornem at 76 with Community Impact Award Aug 15

The Mzehemen U Tiv Foundation (MUTF) has identified Prof. David Iornem, President, New Idea Commonwealth Education Group, for honours on Friday, August 15, with Community Impact Award. 

The MUTF Community Impact Award is reserved for individuals whose work, character, and contributions have made a lasting impact within the Tiv community and beyond.

Prof. Iornem is singled out for the award in recognition of his efforts in providing free, quality education in Benue State and at his university in Benin Republic, Prof. Kohol Iornem, Founder and Executive Director of MUTF, said in a statement obtained by TNT.

According to the statement, Prof. David Iornem will receive the award at a ceremony at Malami College, Gboko, on the same day as the 76th birthday anniversary of the 2016 US president's Life-time Achievement-Award winner.

Fresh students entering schools under the management of the New Idea Commonwealth Education Group are granted free access to education, requiring payment of no fees whatsoever and are not under compulsion to sew uniforms.  

The schools are Iornem Nyagba Zeka College Gboko, Commonwealth Academy, Gboko Hills, JF Kennedy International School, Gboko, MEKTAN International College Gboko, Commonwealth Wealth International Academy, Tine Nune Zaki Biam, NKST Mayange Primary and Secondary School, Mayange, and St. Paul's Primary School and College, Tse Nyagba. All the schools have classes for nursery, basic education, and senior school. 

All students entering the aforementioned schools will not pay any fees for the first term. "This is a bonus to parents and students," Prof. David Iornem said in a statement made available to TNT.

The schools also welcome transfers from other schools.

According to Prof. David Iornem, New Idea Commonwealth Education Group is "doing this to make sure that all children who are out of school because of financial difficulties will go back to school without any hindrance."

TNT understands that the New Idea Commonwealth Education Group has over 100 graduate teachers and charges fees lower than any school in Gboko, Zaki Biam, or any of our locations.

"Our goal is to deliver quality education to all our students, so they are knowledgeable, self-confident, and educationally mature as they leave Secondary School. Our students are not interested in examination malpractice that miracle centres conduct," the New Idea Commonwealth Education Group President told TNT.

David Iornem, PhD, MSc, DMS, DipM, DipEd, Harvard Executive Programme (Distinction), MIT Executive Programme (Distinction), Wharton Executive Programme (Distinction), FNIM, FIMC, M.CAM, FNIMN, MBIM, FCIM, France, CMC, RFC, FCCB, MIPS is a management consultant, University teacher and author of international standing whose works have appeared in Management in Nigeria, the authoritative journal of the Nigeria Institute of Management (Chartered). He co-authored a book on Management consulting published in London by Kogam Page on behalf of the International Council of Management Consulting Instituted (ICMCI). His other published works are in Marketing, political campaigns, advertising, digital marketing, budgeting, and Management.

Prof. Iornem founded the New Idea Management Consultants in 1981 of which he is the Chief Executive. He is the Honorary Director General of the Institute of Management Consultants (IMC) and maintained active interest in developing future managers through support, at different times, of MBA and other post-graduate business programmes of Bayero University Business Kano and Ahmadu Bello University Zsria where he served as Associate faculty, the Business University of Costa Tica as Professor and Honorary Dean of the School of Business, and at the Azteca University Mexico as Professor ot Management Science.

Born on August 15, 1949, Prof. Iornem serves as Academic Adviser and Vice-President of the St. Clements Swiss Private University. He currently champions Executive education of managers and leaders through short Executive training courses of the London Graduate School (www.LondonGS.co.uk) and the Common Wealth University (www.cub-edu.com), as well as MBA programmes of some distance learning institutions. He is the founder and Vice President of a University Collge in Cotonou (www.esucotonou.com).

Prof. Iornem's past career and civic appointments include service with Unilever Nigeria Plc and the Nigerian Breweries Plc as Sales Manager; Centre for Management Development as Consultant; a stint with Lipton of Nigeria as Rwgional Sales Manager; elected member of the 1988/1989 Constituent Assembly; an elected Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; National Publicity Secretary of the Social Democratic Party (SDP); Director: Benue Investment Company Ltd; mrmber: Benue Scholarships Board; council Member of the Federal University of Tevhnology, Akure; Senior Principal Lecturer and Head of Department of Marketing, Purchasing and Supply at the Kaduna Polytechnic, Nigeria, Adjunct Professor of the Union Instutute and University, Cincinnati, USA, President and Chairman of the Board of Managementnof the Kaduna YMCA, among others.

Currently, Prof. Iornem's consultancy engagements and research interests include small business; women epreneurship; management consultancy; marketing; quality management systems; and distance learning education.

In 2016, President Barrack Obama conferred the US president's Life-time Achievement-Award on David Iornem for his voluntary works and for his contributions in the training of managers and leaders spanning over 80 countries.

MUTF is a non-profit organisation that aims to improve the social and economic situation of Tiv land in Benue State, Nigeria. Its mission is to empower the Tiv people, support cultural preservation, and encourage community development.

Registered in both Nigeria and the UK, MUTF takes the lead initiatives in innovation, empowerment, and celebrating Tiv culture while recognising individuals who make positive contributions to society.